+++
title = "ASIS CTF 2016 - feap write-up"
authors = ["hugsy"]
date = 2016-05-09T00:00:00Z
updated = 2016-05-09T00:00:00Z
aliases = ["/posts/2016/05/09/asis-ctf-2016-feap.html"]

[taxonomies]
categories = ["ctf"]
tags = ["pwn","asis-2016","heap-overflow"]
+++

### Info ###

As usual, the vulnerable file is [here](https://mega.nz/#!kNQl3T7Q!_CvMsWhagy3N95aGn9gfA_TouTk6VaFPXavgDme-sX8)

```bash
gef➤  !file ./feap
./feap: ELF 64-bit LSB executable, x86-64, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked, interpreter /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2, for GNU/Linux 2.6.24, BuildID[sha1]=67b9e845e43f9d9b32307836545c649d0390c822, stripped
gef➤  checksec
[+] checksec for '/home/vagrant/feap'
Canary:                                           Yes
NX Support:                                       Yes
PIE Support:                                      No
No RPATH:                                         Yes
No RUNPATH:                                       Yes
Partial RelRO:                                    Yes
Full RelRO:                                       No
```

`feap` is a binary that allows you to add/edit/delete a list of notes. The
notes are stored in a table locate in the `.bss` at 0x6020a8. This table can
hold 20 notes. A note has the following structure:
```bash
00000000 struct __notes
00000000 name            db 64 dup(?)     # 64 bytes
00000040 body            dq               # sizeof(malloc-ed block)-64
00000048 __notes         ends
```

For each note at offset *i*, the **total** size of the malloc-block can be found
at the offset *i* of the table `notes_sizes` located at 0x6020b0,
i.e. `notes_sizes[i] = sizeof(notes[i])`.
{{ img(src="https://i.imgur.com/AhFMZH6.png" title="image_alt") }}


To manipulate the notes, the program offers several options via a simple menu with
different choices:

1. function at 0x400D2B allows to add new notes (later called `add_note()`),
1. function at 0x400C5A allows to delete new notes (later called `del_note()`),
1. function at 0x400AFC allows to edit a note (later called `edit_note()`),
1. function at 0x40096D allows to print all notes (later called `print_all_notes()`),
1. function at 0x0400A1D allows to print one note (later called `print_note()`),
1. `exit()` the program

### Vulnerability

Two vulnerabilities were found:

- a lack of boundary check in `print_note()` function allows to read at
  arbitrary address of the memory space;
- a heap overflow in the `edit_note()` function allows to overwrite adjacent
  chunks.


#### Memory leak

When printing a specific note, the user is prompted for a note index. However,
this index is not checked, meaning that any submitted value outside the boundary
of the `notes` table (i.e. between [0, 19]) will leak the process memory.

```c
print_note()
{
  int result; // rax@2
  unsigned int v1; // [sp+Ch] [bp-4h]@1

  printf("Please enter note id to print: ");
  __isoc99_scanf("%d", &v1);
  if ( notes[v1] ) {
     printf("ID: %d\n", v1);
     printf("Title: %s\n", notes[v1]);
     printf("Body: %s\n", &notes[v1]->body);
     result = 0LL;
  } else
[...]
```

`notes` and `notes_sizes` are 2 adjacently allocated chunks of size 160
bytes. This implies that attempting to reach `notes[20]` will land in
`notes_sizes` `prev_size` section, and `notes[21]` in `notes_sizes` `size`
section. So by accessing `notes[22]` we will attempt to read the content pointed
by `notes_sizes[0]`.
So to read at address `ADDR` in the memory layout, we must:

1. create a note of size `ADDR`-64
1. print the note at offset 22

(as implemented in
[leak_memory function](https://gist.github.com/hugsy/de228ac01bae2125481cae00790a3a88#file-gef-exploit-py-L77))

This leak not only allows us to dump heap addresses, but also GOT addresses
(such as `puts@got`, `free@got`, `printf@got`) etc. which defeats the library
randomization.


#### Heap overflow

The function `edit_note()`, allows to edit the
content of a note, by editing its name of its body.

When editing the body, the function calls `fgets()` on `note[i]->body`, but with
a size to read of the entire chunk (name + body).
{{ img(src="https://i.imgur.com/3ywKzd7.png" title="edit_note_overflow") }}

So we have 64 bytes (i.e. sizeof(note.name) ) that we can overwrite in the next chunk.


### Exploitation

On top of the vulnerabilities mentioned earlier, we have total control over the
size of a call to `malloc()` in the
`add_note()` function (at 0x400DAE). This is the perfect scenario for a **House
of Force** exploitation.

The **House of Force** technique has already been used in
[previous post](/posts/2016/03/21/bctf-16-ruin.html) so I
won't detail it as much (no pretty ascii art this time ). But the idea stays the
same:

1. allocate a first note;
1. allocate a second note, whose malloc-ed size will drop us into the GOT;
1. overwrite `notes[1]` chunk headers by editing `notes[0]`;
1. create a last chunk that will actually overwrite the desired address.

`free@got.plt` at 0x602018 is a good candidate to be overwritten, so we need to
create a size of `free_location - notes_location`. With a few adjustments we
get:

```python
    sz = free_location - notes_location - 512
    s.read_until("Enter note body size: ")
    s.write("{}\n".format(sz))
```

Now we know that `free@got.plt` will be overwritten by the `note->name` of the
next note created.

With the memory leak explained above, we can dynamically get several addresses
in the GOT. Using `libcdb` on those 2 addresses we can know the
libc version and therefore the offset of the `system()` function:

```python
    system_addr = libc_base + 0x00046640
```

All we have left to do, is to write `"/bin/sh"` as the note->name of the note we
will want to delete.

```python
  ok("Create 1st note")
  s.read_until("> ")
  s.write("1\n")
  s.read_until("Enter note body size: ")
  s.write("2\n")
  s.read_until(": ")
  s.write("/bin/sh\0\n")
```

Put it all together in the
[complete exploit](https://gist.github.com/hugsy/de228ac01bae2125481cae00790a3a88)
and you get the flag:
{{ img(src="https://i.imgur.com/t2wYPsl.png" title="flag") }}
